README.md, before:

# Pest Plugin Browser

This repository contains the Pest Plugin Browser.

> If you want to start testing your application with Pest, visit the main *
*[Pest Repository](https://github.com/pestphp/pest)**.

## Community & Resources

- Explore our docs at **[pestphp.com »](https://pestphp.com)**
- Follow us on Twitter at **[@pestphp »](https://twitter.com/pestphp)**
- Join us at **[discord.gg/kaHY6p54JH »](https://discord.gg/kaHY6p54JH)** or *
  *[t.me/+kYH5G4d5MV83ODk0 »](https://t.me/+kYH5G4d5MV83ODk0)**

## Installation (for development purposes)

1. Install PHP dependencies using Composer:

```bash
composer install
```

2. Install Node.js dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

3. Install Playwright browsers:

```bash
npx playwright install
```

## Running Tests

To run the test suite, execute:

```bash
./vendor/bin/pest
```

## The Playground

![Playground_interacting-with-elements.png](docs/Playground_interacting-with-elements.png)

For each Operation/Assertion, we add a corresponding Test.

We can make use of the `playgroundUrl()` helper, to get its URL during the test.

We can provide a URI that will be appended, e.g: `playgroundUrl('/test/interactive-elements')`.

Attention: we can use `->visit('/foo')`, using the base URL, without the helper.

The helper exists for assertion scenarios, like:

```php
$this->visit('/test/interactive-elements')
    ->assertUrlIs(playgroundUrl('/test/interactive-elements'))
```

### Routes and views for testing

Check the `playground/resources/views/test-pages` folder for existing views.

They are accessible by the playground route `/test/{page}`.

E.g.: The view `resources/views/test-pages/interactive-elements.blade.php` is visited
on `playgroundUrl('/test/interactive-elements')`.

The playground is standard Laravel App, where you may add a page with a feature for your test.

Just add the view, and the Nav Menu will automatically update based on the view name.

## License

Pest is an open-sourced software licensed under the **[MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)**.

# Documentation

Pest Plugin Browser brings end-to-end testing to the elegant syntax from Pest.
This allows to test your application in a browser environment, enabling to test all the components, such as frontend,
backend and database.

## Installation

TBD

## Available Operations

- [back](#back)
- [click](#click)
- [clickAndHold](#clickAndHold)
- [clickAtPoint](#clickAtPoint)
- [clickAtXPath](#clickAtXPath)
- [clickLink](#clickLink)
- [controlClick](#controlClick)
- [doubleClick](#doubleClick)
- [forward](#forward)
- [pause](#pause)
- [setTimeout](#setTimeout)
- [refresh](#refresh)
- [rightClick](#rightClick)
- [screenshot](#screenshot)
- [visit](#visit)

### Checkboxes

Check the given element.

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->check('#checkbox-unchecked');
```

Uncheck the given element.

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->uncheck('#checkbox-checked');
```

### click

Click the element at the given selector.

```php
$this->click('.selector');
```

### clickAndHold

Perform a mouse click and hold the mouse button down at the given selector.

```php
$this->clickAndHold('.selector');
```

### clickAtPoint

Click the topmost element at the given pair of coordinates.

```php
$this->clickAtPoint('//div[@class = "selector"]');
```

### clickAtXPath

Click the element at the given XPath expression.

```php
$this->clickAtXPath('//div[@class = "selector"]');
```

### clickLink

Clicks some text on the page.

```php
$this->clickLink('Sign In');
```

### controlClick

Control click the element at the given selector.

```php
$this->controlClick('.selector');
```

### doubleClick

Double-click the element at the given selector.

```php
$this->doubleClick('.selector');
```

### Navigate back

Go back one page from the browser history.

```php
$this->back();
```

### Navigate forward

Go forward one page from the browser history.

```php
$this->forward();
```

### pause

Pauses the execution for a specified number of milliseconds.

> [!WARNING]
> Discouraged: Never pause in production. Tests that wait for an amount of time are inherently flaky. Use "wait for
> element" or "wait for an event" approaches - you can wait for an event your app dispatches.

```php
    $this->pause(5000); // Pause for 5 seconds
```

### setTimeout

Changes the timeout for the currently running test to the given value in milliseconds.

```php
    $this->setTimeout(10000); // set timeout for test execution to 10 seconds
```

### refresh

Refreshes the current page.

```php
$this->refresh();
```

### rightClick

Right click the element at the given selector.

```php
$this->rightClick('.selector');
```

### screenshot

Takes a full-page screenshot of the current page and saves it under `/Browser/screenshots`.

```php
$this->screenshot('filename');
```

### visit

Visits the given URL, and starts a new browser test.

```php
$this->visit('https://pestphp.com');
```

## Available Assertions

- [assertAttribute](#assertAttribute)
- [assertAttributeContains](#assertAttributeContains)
- [assertAttributeDoesntContain](#assertAttributeDoesntContain)
- [assertAttributeMissing](#assertAttributeMissing)
- [assertDontSee](#assertDontSee)
- [assertQueryStringHas](#assertQueryStringHas)
- [assertQueryStringMissing](#assertQueryStringMissing)
- [assertPathBeginsWith](#assertpathbeginswith)
- [assertPathEndsWith](#assertpathendswith)
- [assertPathContains](#assertpathcontains)
- [assertPathIs](#assertpathis)
- [assertPathIsNot](#assertpathisnot)
- [assertPresent](#assertpresent)
- [assertNotPresent](#assertnotpresent)
- [assertScript](#assertscript)
- [assertVisible](#assertvisible)
- [assertMissing](#assertmissing)
- [assertChecked](#assertchecked)
- [assertNotChecked](#assertnotchecked)

### assertAttribute

Assert that the specified element has the expected attribute and value:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertAttribute('html', 'data-theme', 'light');
```

### assertAttributeContains

Assert that the specified element has the expected attribute and the value contains a specific value:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertAttributeContains('html', 'data-theme', 'ight');
```

#### assertAttributeDoesntContain

Assert that the specified element has the expected attribute, but the value does not contain a specific value:

```php
    $this->visit($url)
        ->assertAttributeDoesntContain('html', 'data-theme', 'not here');
```

### assertAttributeMissing

Assert that the specified element is missing a particular attribute :

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertAttributeMissing('html', 'data-missing');
```

### assertDontSee

Assert that the given text is not present on the page:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertDontSee('we are a streaming service');
```

### assertVisible

Assert that an element with the given selector is visible:

```php
test('assert visible', function () {
    $this->visit($url)
        ->assertVisible('h1:visible');
});
```

### assertMissing

Assert that an element with the given selector is hidden:

```php
test('assert missing', function () {
    $this->visit($url)
        ->assertMissing('a.hidden');
```

### assertQueryStringHas

Assert that the given query string is present in the url:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertQueryStringHas('q', 'test');
```

### assertQueryStringMissing

Assert that the given query string is not present in the url:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertQueryStringMissing('q', 'test-1');
```

### assertPathBeginsWith

Assert that the current URL path begins with the given path:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertPathBeginsWith('/test');
```

### assertPathEndsWith

Assert that the current URL path ends with the given path:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertPathEndsWith('/test');
```

### assertPathContains

Assert that the current URL path contains the given path:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertPathContains('/test');
```

### assertPathIs

Assert that the current URL path matches the given path:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertPathIs('/test');

// Asterisk (*) can be used as a wildcard

$this->visit($url)
    ->assertPathIs('/test/*');
```

### assertPathIsNot

Assert that the current URL path does not match the given path:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertPathIsNot('/test');
```

### assertScript

Assert that the given script returns the expected value:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertScript('document.querySelector("title").textContent.includes("Laravel")', true);
```

### assertPresent

Assert that the element with a given selector is present on the page:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertPresent('h1:visible');
```

### assertNotPresent

Assert that the element with a given selector is not present on the page:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertNotPresent('a.non-existing-class');
```

#### assertChecked

Assert that the element with a given selector is checked:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertChecked('input[type="checkbox"].checked');
```

#### assertNotChecked

Assert that the element with a given selector is not checked:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertNotChecked('input[type="checkbox"].checked');
```

Commit message:

feat: Add setTimeout feature for changing test timeout
Introduces a new `setTimeout` feature to adjust test timeout during execution to the specified value in milliseconds. This feature complements the `pause` function when needed or in similar contexts.

README.md, after:

# Pest Plugin Browser

This repository contains the Pest Plugin Browser.

> If you want to start testing your application with Pest, visit the main *
*[Pest Repository](https://github.com/pestphp/pest)**.

## Community & Resources

- Explore our docs at **[pestphp.com »](https://pestphp.com)**
- Follow us on Twitter at **[@pestphp »](https://twitter.com/pestphp)**
- Join us at **[discord.gg/kaHY6p54JH »](https://discord.gg/kaHY6p54JH)** or *
  *[t.me/+kYH5G4d5MV83ODk0 »](https://t.me/+kYH5G4d5MV83ODk0)**

## Installation (for development purposes)

1. Install PHP dependencies using Composer:

```bash
composer install
```

2. Install Node.js dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

3. Install Playwright browsers:

```bash
npx playwright install
```

## Running Tests

To run the test suite, execute:

```bash
./vendor/bin/pest
```

## The Playground

![Playground_interacting-with-elements.png](docs/Playground_interacting-with-elements.png)

For each Operation/Assertion, we add a corresponding Test.

We can make use of the `playgroundUrl()` helper, to get its URL during the test.

We can provide a URI that will be appended, e.g: `playgroundUrl('/test/interactive-elements')`.

Attention: we can use `->visit('/foo')`, using the base URL, without the helper.

The helper exists for assertion scenarios, like:

```php
$this->visit('/test/interactive-elements')
    ->assertUrlIs(playgroundUrl('/test/interactive-elements'))
```

### Routes and views for testing

Check the `playground/resources/views/test-pages` folder for existing views.

They are accessible by the playground route `/test/{page}`.

E.g.: The view `resources/views/test-pages/interactive-elements.blade.php` is visited
on `playgroundUrl('/test/interactive-elements')`.

The playground is standard Laravel App, where you may add a page with a feature for your test.

Just add the view, and the Nav Menu will automatically update based on the view name.

## License

Pest is an open-sourced software licensed under the **[MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)**.

# Documentation

Pest Plugin Browser brings end-to-end testing to the elegant syntax from Pest.
This allows to test your application in a browser environment, enabling to test all the components, such as frontend,
backend and database.

## Installation

TBD

## Available Operations

- [back](#back)
- [click](#click)
- [clickAndHold](#clickAndHold)
- [clickAtPoint](#clickAtPoint)
- [clickAtXPath](#clickAtXPath)
- [clickLink](#clickLink)
- [controlClick](#controlClick)
- [doubleClick](#doubleClick)
- [forward](#forward)
- [pause](#pause)
- [setTimeout](#setTimeout)
- [refresh](#refresh)
- [rightClick](#rightClick)
- [screenshot](#screenshot)
- [visit](#visit)

### Checkboxes

Check the given element.

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->check('#checkbox-unchecked');
```

Uncheck the given element.

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->uncheck('#checkbox-checked');
```

### click

Click the element at the given selector.

```php
$this->click('.selector');
```

### clickAndHold

Perform a mouse click and hold the mouse button down at the given selector.

```php
$this->clickAndHold('.selector');
```

### clickAtPoint

Click the topmost element at the given pair of coordinates.

```php
$this->clickAtPoint('//div[@class = "selector"]');
```

### clickAtXPath

Click the element at the given XPath expression.

```php
$this->clickAtXPath('//div[@class = "selector"]');
```

### clickLink

Clicks some text on the page.

```php
$this->clickLink('Sign In');
```

### controlClick

Control click the element at the given selector.

```php
$this->controlClick('.selector');
```

### doubleClick

Double-click the element at the given selector.

```php
$this->doubleClick('.selector');
```

### Navigate back

Go back one page from the browser history.

```php
$this->back();
```

### Navigate forward

Go forward one page from the browser history.

```php
$this->forward();
```

### pause

Pauses the execution for a specified number of milliseconds.

> [!WARNING]
> Discouraged: Never pause in production. Tests that wait for an amount of time are inherently flaky. Use "wait for
> element" or "wait for an event" approaches - you can wait for an event your app dispatches.

```php
    $this->pause(5000); // Pause for 5 seconds
```

### setTimeout

Changes the timeout for the currently running test to the given value in milliseconds.
This feature works well in combination with [pause](#pause) when necessary or in other relevant scenarios.

```php
    $this->setTimeout(10000); // set timeout for test execution to 10 seconds
```

### refresh

Refreshes the current page.

```php
$this->refresh();
```

### rightClick

Right click the element at the given selector.

```php
$this->rightClick('.selector');
```

### screenshot

Takes a full-page screenshot of the current page and saves it under `/Browser/screenshots`.

```php
$this->screenshot('filename');
```

### visit

Visits the given URL, and starts a new browser test.

```php
$this->visit('https://pestphp.com');
```

## Available Assertions

- [assertAttribute](#assertAttribute)
- [assertAttributeContains](#assertAttributeContains)
- [assertAttributeDoesntContain](#assertAttributeDoesntContain)
- [assertAttributeMissing](#assertAttributeMissing)
- [assertDontSee](#assertDontSee)
- [assertQueryStringHas](#assertQueryStringHas)
- [assertQueryStringMissing](#assertQueryStringMissing)
- [assertPathBeginsWith](#assertpathbeginswith)
- [assertPathEndsWith](#assertpathendswith)
- [assertPathContains](#assertpathcontains)
- [assertPathIs](#assertpathis)
- [assertPathIsNot](#assertpathisnot)
- [assertPresent](#assertpresent)
- [assertNotPresent](#assertnotpresent)
- [assertScript](#assertscript)
- [assertVisible](#assertvisible)
- [assertMissing](#assertmissing)
- [assertChecked](#assertchecked)
- [assertNotChecked](#assertnotchecked)

### assertAttribute

Assert that the specified element has the expected attribute and value:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertAttribute('html', 'data-theme', 'light');
```

### assertAttributeContains

Assert that the specified element has the expected attribute and the value contains a specific value:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertAttributeContains('html', 'data-theme', 'ight');
```

#### assertAttributeDoesntContain

Assert that the specified element has the expected attribute, but the value does not contain a specific value:

```php
    $this->visit($url)
        ->assertAttributeDoesntContain('html', 'data-theme', 'not here');
```

### assertAttributeMissing

Assert that the specified element is missing a particular attribute :

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertAttributeMissing('html', 'data-missing');
```

### assertDontSee

Assert that the given text is not present on the page:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertDontSee('we are a streaming service');
```

### assertVisible

Assert that an element with the given selector is visible:

```php
test('assert visible', function () {
    $this->visit($url)
        ->assertVisible('h1:visible');
});
```

### assertMissing

Assert that an element with the given selector is hidden:

```php
test('assert missing', function () {
    $this->visit($url)
        ->assertMissing('a.hidden');
```

### assertQueryStringHas

Assert that the given query string is present in the url:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertQueryStringHas('q', 'test');
```

### assertQueryStringMissing

Assert that the given query string is not present in the url:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertQueryStringMissing('q', 'test-1');
```

### assertPathBeginsWith

Assert that the current URL path begins with the given path:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertPathBeginsWith('/test');
```

### assertPathEndsWith

Assert that the current URL path ends with the given path:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertPathEndsWith('/test');
```

### assertPathContains

Assert that the current URL path contains the given path:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertPathContains('/test');
```

### assertPathIs

Assert that the current URL path matches the given path:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertPathIs('/test');

// Asterisk (*) can be used as a wildcard

$this->visit($url)
    ->assertPathIs('/test/*');
```

### assertPathIsNot

Assert that the current URL path does not match the given path:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertPathIsNot('/test');
```

### assertScript

Assert that the given script returns the expected value:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertScript('document.querySelector("title").textContent.includes("Laravel")', true);
```

### assertPresent

Assert that the element with a given selector is present on the page:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertPresent('h1:visible');
```

### assertNotPresent

Assert that the element with a given selector is not present on the page:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertNotPresent('a.non-existing-class');
```

#### assertChecked

Assert that the element with a given selector is checked:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertChecked('input[type="checkbox"].checked');
```

#### assertNotChecked

Assert that the element with a given selector is not checked:

```php
$this->visit($url)
    ->assertNotChecked('input[type="checkbox"].checked');
```
